---
layout: post
title: "Github"
date: 2015-01-08 14:06:21
author: schmitty
---

## GITHUB




<br>

## Terminal Basics

Terminal is a direct interface with you computer. Instead of clicking through files, you are able to search through them with direct commands.

<br>

## New Post??

To create a new post, you start with a new Terminal window, and navigate to the blog folder. List the items in the folder, and cd to the "scripts"
file. List the items, there should be a file called "new_post.rb". Type "ruby" into a new line, followed by "new_post.rb", and enter. Follow the prompts, and
type your name as it appears on the blog. Then, go back into the finder window, click on your posts folder, and there it is!

<br>

## Commit & Sync

As you make changes, they are all saved to the copy of the repository stored on your computer. Once you have the changes you need to make, you need to commit them to
Github and synch for them to show up. To commit, go to the changes tab of Github for Mac, and under Uncommitted changes, enter as quick summary of what you did. Click
commit once you are satisfied. This saves the changes to your copy of the repository, and to update them to the blog, you have you press "Sync" in the top right
corner.


<br>

## Markdown!

Essentially, markdown is a condensed version of html. It takes simpler commands, and when it's uploaded, translates that into html and THEN renders into a
a wonderful website. Instead of <p> tags on paragraphs, you just type, instead of <h1-6> tags, you just use # symbols. It also uses the spaces in the code
itself to tell the website how to render the spacing.

More explanation available [here](http://blakecs-spring2015.github.io/schmitty/2015/01/05/markdown-cheatsheet/), in an earlier post. The original guide is
[here](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/basics), written by the creator.
