---
layout: post
title: "Week One Post"
date: 2015-01-12 09:49:37
author: nick
---

This is a brand new post!

This was our first week in the object oriented computer science class. We spent most of the class days taking a look at the upper school’s schedule. On day 1, we were split up into four groups and basically told to fix or change the upper school schedule. From there we spent time thinking mainly thinking about changes that would benefit the student body. In my first group, we decided to incorporate three lunches into the schedule instead of just two. With this said, we were able to get it to fit into the schedule but we didn’t account for all perspectives. To incorporate three lunches into the schedule it would have had to been class then lunch, lunch then class, or class then lunch then class. With this said, this would be a huge positive for the lunch staff and the student body, but a negative for the teaching staff. Splitting up a class period with lunch would likely cause some issues within the teaching staff. This brings me to my next point. Most groups failed to account for all of the perspectives at the upper school and rather they just changed parts of the schedule that would be nice for the student body. After the groups presented their new schedules we were told to do it again with new groups. But before we got into new groups we took a step back and talked about the pros and cons of the new schedules. The second time doing it we wanted to account for more of the perspectives at the upper school. After completing it the second time and changing a lot of the schedule around we felt as though we accomplished our goal. One of the biggest commonalities between all of the groups’ new schedules was more class time and longer blocks. Overall though, we decided that the schedule as is does a pretty good job satisfying almost of the perspectives at the upper school.